# Research

In the Walker group, we are interested in how to connect biological phenomena and measurements of fluorescence using computational chemistry. 

Imaging and tagging proteins in the human body is of great scientific and medical interest. Theoretical chemistry provides avenues of testing large numbers of compounds and hypotheses in a systematic and inexpensive way, and also allows us to uncover principles for further design. One direction the Walker group will take is a bottom-up approach to designing new fluorescent biomolecules that absorb and emit brightly in the red part of the spectrum in order to image deep tissue. We will investigate a set of fluorescent synthetic nucleobases using quantum chemistry and molecular dynamics, and create a large data set that can be used for machine learning and design of new bases with various desired properties. These will then be tested in series, working up to large aptamer drugs like IL6SOMAmer, as pictured, in solution and bound to protein targets.

Another direction will be to investigate the effects of protein environment on fluorescence. Many experiments use fluorescent tags to investigate protein dynamics. These can be either small molecules or proteins themselves, such as green fluorescent protein. This direction of the Walker group will involve investigating large protein systems with their fluorescent tags attached, both to compare fluorescent emission wavelengths and brightness to experimental quantities and to potentially design custom tags with new properties. As the tags become close to each other, energy transfers from Tag 1 to Tag 2, resulting in an immediate shift in emission wavelength. This can be used to compare the motions of proteins simulated on the computer with the motions obtained in experiment, while also providing greater detail on what is happening on the atomic level for even very large systems. 